Vector 2.0 documentation changes (#920)
neo4j/docs-cypher: modules/ROOT/pages/indexes/semantic-indexes/vector-indexes.adoc

|===
| Usage | Procedure/Command | Description

| Create node vector index.
| `+CREATE VECTOR INDEX ...+`

> | label:new[Introduced in 5.15] Create a node vector index for the specified label and property with the given vector dimensionality using the given similarity function.
> See the xref:indexes/search-performance-indexes/managing-indexes.adoc#create-indexes[`CREATE INDEX`] command for more details. Replaces {link-procedures-reference}#procedure_db_index_vector_createNodeIndex[`db.index.vector.createNodeIndex`].
> 
> | Create relationship vector index.
> | `+CREATE VECTOR INDEX ...+`
> | label:new[Introduced in 5.18] Create a relationship vector index for the specified relationship type and property with the given vector dimensionality using the given similarity function.
> See the xref:indexes/search-performance-indexes/managing-indexes.adoc#create-indexes[`CREATE INDEX`] command for more details.

Reviewer: Labels in a table should go at the end - I have an open PR that fixes this for the rest of the manual.
```suggestion
| Create a node vector index for the specified label and property with the given vector dimensionality using the given similarity function.
See the xref:indexes/search-performance-indexes/managing-indexes.adoc#create-indexes[`CREATE INDEX`] command for more details. Replaces {link-procedures-reference}#procedure_db_index_vector_createNodeIndex[`db.index.vector.createNodeIndex`].  label:new[Introduced in 5.15]

| Create relationship vector index.
| `+CREATE VECTOR INDEX ...+`
| Create a relationship vector index for the specified relationship type and property with the given vector dimensionality using the given similarity function.
See the xref:indexes/search-performance-indexes/managing-indexes.adoc#create-indexes[`CREATE INDEX`] command for more details. label:new[Introduced in 5.18]
```

The index name must be unique among both indexes and constraints.
====

> A vector index is a single-label, single-property index for nodes or a single-relationship-type, single-property index for relationships.{fn-provider-differences}
> A vector index needs to be configured with both the dimensionality of the vector (`INTEGER` between `1` and `4096` _inclusive_),{fn-provider-differences} and the measure of similarity between two vectors (case-insensitive `STRING`).

Reviewer: Two references to the same footnote, without another footnote in between, in the same paragraph might not be necessary. 

```suggestion
A vector index is a single-label, single-property index for nodes or a single-relationship-type, single-property index for relationships.
A vector index needs to be configured with both the dimensionality of the vector (`INTEGER` between `1` and `4096` _inclusive_), and the measure of similarity between two vectors (case-insensitive `STRING`).{fn-provider-differences}
```

| Create a vector index on nodes.
The options map is mandatory because setting the vector dimensions and similarity function is mandatory when creating a vector index.

| [source, syntax, role=noplay, indent=0]
----
CREATE VECTOR INDEX [index_name] [IF NOT EXISTS]
FOR ()-”[“r:TYPE_NAME”]”-()
ON (r.propertyName)
OPTIONS "{" option: value[, ...] "}"
----

> | Create a vector index on relationships.  label:new[Introduced in 5.18]
> The options map is mandatory because setting the vector dimensions and similarity function is mandatory when creating a vector index.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Create a vector index on relationships. 
The options map is mandatory because setting the vector dimensions and similarity function is mandatory when creating a vector index. label:new[Introduced in 5.18]
```

====

The `CREATE VECTOR INDEX` command take an `OPTIONS` clause. This has two parts, the `indexProvider` and `indexConfig`.

> As of Neo4j 5.18, there are two available index providers, `vector-2.0` (default, preferred) and `vector-1.0` (compatibility).

Reviewer: I'd be inclined to just go with "(default)" here (it kind of assumes that it is preferred), and also remove "(compatibility)" which in it self isnt really telling the user anything? Or am I missing something?

```suggestion
As of Neo4j 5.18, there are two available index providers, `vector-2.0` (default) and `vector-1.0`.
```

 `vector.similarity_function`: 'cosine'
}}
----
====

.Create a relationship vector index
====

> // TODO: fix a proper example

Reviewer 2: This is still a relevant TODO

 `vector.similarity_function`: 'cosine'
}}
----
====

.Create a relationship vector index
====

Assume you have a graph of employees and their managers, who are themselves employees.
Managers review their reports periodically, and you wish to search for reviews of similar themes and nuances to find excellent employees.

.Data model
[source,syntax,role="noheader",indent=0]
----
(:Manager)-[:REVIEWED]->(:Employee)
----

> Assume for each abstract, you have generated a 256-dimensional vector `embedding` of the review's `text` using a shortening of Open AI's `text-embedding-3-large` model.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Assume for each review, you have generated a 256-dimensional vector `embedding` of the review's `text` using a shortening of Open AI's `text-embedding-3-large` model.
```

.Signature for `db.index.vector.queryNodes` to query a vector index
[source,syntax,role="noheader",indent=0]
----

> db.index.vector.queryNodes(indexName :: STRING, numberOfNearestNeighbours :: INTEGER, query :: LIST<INTEGER | FLOAT>) :: (node :: NODE, score :: FLOAT)

Reviewer 2: I guess we still need to document the query relationship index procedure? (in this file as well as it was only added to the syntax section)

Reviewer 2: Do we want an example of using it as well or are we happy with just listing it? (might be a question for docs team)

Author: working on it :sweat_smile: just pushed it so docs can have a look

The most similar to this result is the query vector itself, which is to be expected as the index was queried with an indexed property.
If the query vector itself is not wanted, you can use `WHERE score < 1` to remove equivalent vectors to the query vector.
====

.Query a relationship vector index
====

> This example takes a query vector describing the themes and and nuances we are looking for in the reviews.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This example takes a query vector describing particular themes and nuances in the reviews.
```

== Set a vector property on a node

Valid vectors for use in the index must have components finitely representable in {ieee-754} _single_ precision.
They are represented as properties on nodes with the type `LIST<INTEGER | FLOAT>`.
As of Neo4j 5.13, you can set a vector property using the {link-procedures-reference}#procedure_db_create_setNodeVectorProperty[`db.create.setNodeVectorProperty`] procedure.
It validates the input and sets the property as an array of {ieee-754} single precision values.
This beta procedure replaces {link-procedures-reference}#procedure_db_create_setVectorProperty[`db.create.setVectorProperty`].

.Signature for `db.create.setNodeVectorProperty`
[source,syntax]
----

> db.create.setNodeVectorProperty(node :: NODE, key :: STRING, vector :: LIST<INTEGER | FLOAT>)

Reviewer 2: I guess we still need to document the relationship set property procedure?

Reviewer 2: Do we want an example of using it as well or are we happy with just listing it? (might be a question for docs team)

[role=beta]
[[indexes-vector-set]]
== Set a vector property

Valid vectors for use in the index must have components finitely representable in {ieee-754} _single_ precision.
They are represented as properties on nodes with the type `LIST<INTEGER | FLOAT>`.
As of Neo4j 5.13, you can set a vector property on a node using the {link-procedures-reference}#procedure_db_create_setNodeVectorProperty[`db.create.setNodeVectorProperty`] procedure.
It validates the input and sets the property as an array of {ieee-754} single precision values.

> This beta procedure replaces {link-procedures-reference}#procedure_db_create_setVectorProperty[`db.create.setVectorProperty`]. As of Neo4j 5.18, you can set a vector property on a relationship using the {link-procedures-reference}#procedure_db_create_setRelationshipVectorProperty[`db.create.setRelationshipVectorProperty`] procedure.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This beta procedure replaces {link-procedures-reference}#procedure_db_create_setVectorProperty[`db.create.setVectorProperty`].
As of Neo4j 5.18, you can set a vector property on a relationship using the {link-procedures-reference}#procedure_db_create_setRelationshipVectorProperty[`db.create.setRelationshipVectorProperty`] procedure.
```
I assume docs will have a linebreak in between the sentences

Reviewer 2: also is the `db.create.setNodeVectorProperty` still a beta procedure or should it be
```suggestion
This procedure replaces {link-procedures-reference}#procedure_db_create_setVectorProperty[`db.create.setVectorProperty`].
As of Neo4j 5.18, you can set a vector property on a relationship using the {link-procedures-reference}#procedure_db_create_setRelationshipVectorProperty[`db.create.setRelationshipVectorProperty`] procedure.
```

Author: all of these `set` procedures are kept as "beta"

CALL db.create.setNodeVectorProperty(n, 'propertyKey', $vector)
RETURN n
----

> Likewise by matching a relationship and setting its vector properties using `db.create.setRelationshipVectorProperty`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Likewise, by matching a relationship and setting its vector properties using `db.create.setRelationshipVectorProperty`:
```

image::cosine_similarity_equation.svg["The cosine of vector v and vector u is defined as half of the quanity 1 plus the scalar product of v hat u hat, which equals half of the quantity 1 plus the scalar product of vector v vector u over the product of the l2-norm of vector v and the l2 norm ov vector u, which exists in the bounded set of real numbers between 0 inclusive and 1 inclusive."]
In the above equation the trigonometric cosine is given by the scalar product of the two unit vectors.

[[indexes-vector-provider-differences]]

> == Compatibility index provider differences

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Vector index providers and compatibility

```

> The default and preferred vector index provider is `vector-2.0`.

Reviewer: Can we mention something brief about the differences between the 2 providers? What has improved with 2.0?

```suggestion
As of Neo4j 5.18, the default and preferred vector index provider is `vector-2.0`.
```

Previously created `vector-1.0` indexes will continue to function.
New indexes can still be created with the `vector-1.0` index provider if specified, see xref:indexes-vector-create[].

Supported index schema::
A single-label, single-property index for nodes.

Supported property value type::
`LIST<FLOAT>`.

Supported vector dimensionality::
`INTEGER` between `1` and `2048` _inclusive_.

Cosine similarity vector validity::
* All vector components can be represented finitely in {ieee-754} single precision.

> * Its {l2-norm} is non-zero and can be represented finitely in {ieee-754} single precision.

Reviewer: What does this table have to do with the differences between vector-1.0 and vector-2.0? Or should it have its own heading?

Reviewer 2: If I have understood it correctly, those are the things `vector-1.0` follows that differs from what `vector-2.0` does (which is in the main parts with footnotes to this section)

|===
| Known issues | Fixed in

| Procedure signatures from `SHOW PROCEDURES` will render the vector arguments with a type of `ANY` rather than the semantically correct type of `LIST<INTEGER \| FLOAT>`.
[NOTE]
====
The types are still enforced as `LIST<INTEGER \| FLOAT>`.
====

> |

Reviewer 2: if it isn't fixed should it be up in the `Limitations and idiosyncrasies` instead of this table (from what I've seen this holds the fixed issues and that the open ones?)

Reviewer: We will keep it here for now, as it still might be fixed - but will change to your suggestion if fix becomes less probable
